#summary Patches, custom builds, projects.

== SciTE packages ==
  * [http://code.google.com/p/scintillua/ SciTE-st], Scintilla/SciTE that has dynamic lexing capabilities.
  * [http://scite.ruteam.ru/ SciteRU], Russian Scite with many modifications/improvements. (Remove the locale.properties file to display in English, I seem to recall).
  * [http://gisdeveloper.tripod.com/scite.html SciTE with Extensions], Windows installer, some extensions included.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/scite-eg/ SciTE - Exempli Gratia] Packaging of SciTE for Windows, aimed to be used with R and Python
  * [http://code.google.com/p/scite-for-lua/ SciTE for Lua] SciTE bundle for Lua programming
  * [http://llt.chez-alice.fr/ FilerX], project management and macro features on Windows. (Currently unmaintained?)
  * [http://code.google.com/p/scitepp/ Scitepp], an enhancement of SciTE with file manager, debugging, and more.

== SciTE tools ==
  * [http://caladbolg.net/scite_snippets.php Caladbolg SciTE Snippets] Textmate-like snippets for SciTE
  * [http://caladbolg.net/luadoc/scite/manual.html Caladbolg SciTE Tools] powerful text-editing utilities and modes
  * [http://www.burgaud.com/scite-context-menu/ SciTE Context menu] a context menu handler that gives the ability, on Windows, to quickly open selected files with SciTE.
  * [http://www.frykholm.se/scitecmd.html scitecmd], a simple utility for opening files as tabs in SciTE from the command line on Windows.
  * [http://scitedebug.luaforge.net/ SciTE-Debug] Interface for using symbolic debuggers in SciTE

== Extensions to SciTE ==
  * [CustomBuilds_SciTEPython Scite Python Extension], script SciTE in Python instead of Lua.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/scite-gui/ SciTE-Gui], GTK tool for SciTE UI modification
  * [http://hilfer.rubyforge.org/hilfer/ Hilfer], a keyboard-rich directory browser using ruby-gtk that talks to SciTE, and understands Rails projects.
  * [http://sciteproj.sourceforge.net/ SciteProj], project manager for SciTE

<h5>Code for communication with a SciTE Process</h5>
  * [http://code.google.com/p/scite-files/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fprocess_communication%2Fscite_msg Scite_msg], command line tool to send messages to SciTE.
  * [http://scite-ru.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pack/tools/Helper/SciTE.Helper.html Scite Helper], ActiveX component for the interaction between SciTE and scripts and applications 
  * [http://code.google.com/p/scite-files/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fprocess_communication%2Fscite_other scite_other], lua extension for interacting with other SciTE instance.