#summary Properties files, api files, other material for computer languages.

== User-contributed properties ==

<h5>C, C++</h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/c.api">C standard library</a></li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/c_withdoc.zip">C standard library</a> with short doc strings</li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/cpp.api.zip">Windows API</a>
</li><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/opengl.zip">OpenGL API</a>
</li><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/glut.zip" style="text-decoration: none;">Glut API</a></li></ul>

<h5>Python</h5>
<ul>
<li>[Customization_PythonDebug Python debugging in SciTE]</li>
<li>In Windows, to run a python script, you may need to edit python.properties,<br/> e.g. change the line <tt>command.go.`*`.py=pythonw</tt> to <tt>command.go.`*`.py=c:\Python27\pythonw</tt></li>
</ul>
<h5>!JavaScript, CSS, web</h5>
<ul>
<li>[Customization_BetterCssProperties A better CSS properties file]</li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/css,js,jquery.zip">CSS, !JavaScript, and JQuery api</a></li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/css,js,jquery,php.zip">PHP, abbreviations, CSS, !JavaScript, and JQuery</a></li>
</ul>
<h5>APDL </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/apdl.zip">APDL properties and API</a></li></ul>
<h5>ASP </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/asp.api">ASP API methods</a></li>
<li>Set asp.default.language in html.properties to choose between VbScript or JScript in asp block.</li>
</ul>
<h5>Auto Hotkey </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/ahk.properties">!AutoHotkey properties</a></li>
<li><a href="http://www.autohotkey.net/~fincs/SciTE4AutoHotkey_3/web/">SciTE4AutoHotkey</a> custom SciTE build for ahk.</li></ul>
<h5>Auto It3 </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.autoitscript.com/autoit3/scite">SciTE4AutoIt3 Website containing Auto It3 related properties and API files.</a></li></ul>
<h5>Batch Scripting (Windows)</h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/batch_api.zip">Batch API Files</a> (API files for NT, XP/2003, GNUWin32 and SysInternals commands)</li></ul>
<h5>C# </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/Csharp_api.zip">C# api.</a></li></ul>
<h5>CIL </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/il.properties">Properties for CIL/MSIL</a></li></ul>
<h5>Clojure</h5><ul><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/clojure.api">Properties for Clojure</a></li></ul><h5>CMake</h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/cmake.api">CMake API</a></li></ul>
<h5>FORTRAN </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/fortran.api">Standard FORTRAN API functions</a></li></ul>
<h5>Java </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/Java.api.zip">Java API</a></li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/Scitejavaapi_api_files.zip">Java API, complete 1.5 and 1.6 api</a></li>
<li><a href="http://www.burgaud.com/scite.php">Java API and Java Help</a></li></ul>
<h5>Lua </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/lua5api.zip">Lua 5.0 C API and Lua functions</a></li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/SciTELua.api">Api for SciTE Lua scripts</a></li>
</ul>
<h5>Microsoft SQL </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/mssql.properties">Replaces sql.properties</a></li></ul>
<h5>nncron</h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/nncron.api">nncron.api</a> </li></ul>
<h5>Octave</h5>
<ul>
<li>
<p><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/octave.api">octave.api</a></p></li></ul>
<h5>Oracle </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/sql.properties_ext">Extended properties file</a> with additional keywords and standard package names.</li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/sql_plsql-API.0.1.zip">sql plsql</a> properties file.</li></ul>
<h5>OScript</h5>
<ul>
<li>
<p><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/oscript.api.zip">oscript.api.zip</a></p></li></ul>
<h5>Pascal / Delphi</h5><ul><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/pascal.api">API</a> </li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/pascal.abbrev">Abbreviations</a> </li>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/delphi_extras.zip">Delphi api files and abbrevs</a> </li>
</ul>
<h5>Perl </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/perl.api">Perl API</a></li></ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/parrot_properties.zip">Parrot properties file</a></li></ul>
<h5>PHP </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/html.properties">html.properties</a>
</li><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/php.api">php.api for PHP 4.3.3</a>
</li><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/php.properties">PHP properties</a>
</li><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/phpfunctions.properties">PHP functions</a>
</li></ul>
<h5>POV-Ray </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/pov.api">POV-Ray API</a></li></ul>
<h5>Progress</h5>
<ul>
<li>
<a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/progress.properties">Progress properties</a>
</li><li>
Please see <a href="http://www.yuvcom.com/progress4gl">http://www.yuvcom.com/progress4gl</a> for more information.</li></ul>
<h5>Ruby </h5>
<ul>
<li>Ruby comes with a build of SciTE. Information from the old wiki <a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/scite_from_rb_wiki.htm">here</a>.</li></ul>
<h5>SDL </h5>
<ul><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/sdl.api">SDL API</a></li></ul>
<h5>TADS3 </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/tads3.properties">TADS3 property file</a>
</li><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/TADS3.txt">Explanation</a></li></ul>
<h5>Windows Scripting </h5>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/Windows_scripting.zip">Properties files.</a></li>
<li>[Customization_SciteForWindowsScripters More files and scripts].</li></ul>
<h5>AMPL</h5>
<ul><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/ampl.zip">Properties file, api file, tools and setup instructions.</a></li></ul>
<h5>Asymptote</h5>
<ul><li><a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/asymptote.properties">Properties file.</a></li></ul>

To contribute a file to this list, e-mail the maintainer of this page, scitewiki at gmail dot com, so that it can be hosted here. 

== Languages already supported by SciTE ==

The following are supported by SciTE but disabled by default:
<pre>
abaqus, asn1, au3, avenue, avs, baan, blitzbasic, bullant,
cobol, cmake, csound, ecl, escript, flagship, forth, freebasic, gap,
haskell, inno, kix, latex, lot, lout, metapost, mmixal, modula3, 
nimrod, nncrontab, nsis, opal, oscript, powerpro, powershell, 
purebasic, r, rebol, scriptol, smalltalk, sorcins, spice, specman,
tacl, tal, txt2tags, verilog, vhdl
</pre>

To enable one of these languages, say haskell for example, add the line
{{{import haskell}}} to the SciTEUser.properties file (available from the Options menu -> Open User Options File).


In total, SciTE comes with support for
<pre>
Abaqus, Ada, ANS.1 MIB definition files, APDL, Assembler (nasm, masm),
Asymptote, AutoIt, Avenue, Batch files, Baan, Bash, BlitzBasic,
Bullant, C, C++, C#, Clarion, cmake, conf (Apache), CSound, CSS, D,
diff files, E-Script, Eiffel, Erlang, Flagship, Clipper, XBase, ,
Flash (ActionScript), Fortran, Forth, GAP, Gettext, Haskell, HTML,
embedded JavaScript, VBScript, PHP and ASP, Gui4Cli, IDL, MSIDL,
XPIDL, INI, InnoSetup, Java, JavaScript, LISP, LOT, Lout, Lua, Make,
Matlab, Metapost, MMIXAL, MSSQL, nnCron, NSIS, Objective Caml, Opal,
Octave, Pascal, Delphi, Perl, PL/M, Progress, PostScript, POV-Ray,
PowerBasic, PowerShell, PureBasic, Python, R, Rebol, Ruby, Scheme,
scriptol, Specman E, Spice, Smalltalk, SQL, PLSQL, TADS3, TeX, LaTeX,
Tcl/Tk, VB, VBScript, Verilog, VHDL, XML, and YAML.
</pre>


== How to install a .properties file ==
A .properties file allows you to set up highlighting of keywords, and commands for the Tools menu, for a file type. To install such a file, for example "ahk.properties", place the ahk.properties file in the SciTE directory. Then, edit the Global Options file or User Options file and add the line "import ahk". 

== How to install a .api file ==
A .api file can be used to add tooltips that describe a function's signature. As an example, use cpp.api, for c++ tooltips. Make a directory in the SciTE folder called "api" and move the cpp.api file there. Then, edit cpp.properties to add the line <tt>api.$(file.patterns.cpp)=$(SciteDefaultHome)\api\cpp.api</tt>. Now, if you edit a .cpp file, and type <tt>fclose(</tt>, a tooltip should come up with the syntax.

Other relevant settings are <tt>calltip.cpp.ignorecase</tt> and 
<tt>calltip.cpp.end.definition</tt>.
== How to make .api files for your own sources ==
From the Scite documentation:

  * For C/C++ headers, an API file can be generated using [http://ctags.sourceforge.net/ ctags] and then the <a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/makeapi/tags2api.py">tags2api</a> Python script (which assumes C/C++ source) on the tags file to grab complete multiple line function prototypes. Some common headers surround parameter lists with a __P macro and may have comments. The <a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/makeapi/cleanapi.cc">cleanapi</a> utility may be used on these files.

  * To generate an API file for Python modules, there is a <a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/makeapi/gen_python_api.zip">gen_python</a> script.

  * To generate an API file for Java classes, there is a <a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/makeapi/java_ApiBuilder.java">ApiBuilder.java</a> program.
  * To generate an API file for C# classes, use <a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/makeapi/gen_csgenapi.zip">genapi.cs</a>.
  * To generate an API file for PHP, use <a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/makeapi/gen_php-api-generator.zip">php-api-generator</a> or <a href="http://scite-files.googlecode.com/svn-history/trunk/extras/makeapi/phpapi.php.txt">phpapi.php</a>.
  