#summary Script needed to make useful single-pane outliner
#labels Phase-Support


= Introduction =

I am a writer who has long been frustrated by the lack of a good simple-text single-pane outliner in Linux. Scite looks like the best option for creating one, and I would like to try. 

= Details =

Currently I use Scite to manage first drafts of long documents (20,000 to 100,000 words). 
I use CSS and { } marks to get nested outlines. However, I would like a script that uses the following specifications

* Nests using either a tab indent (preferably) or a non-printing { } that shows up as yellow on the screen.  
* Prints in Times New Roman 12 with 1" margins on all sides. 
* Is able to move nested outline parts with a keystroke command (Probably ALT arrow-up and ALT arrow-down). 
* Is able to move paragraphs up or down with a CTL arrow-up and CTL arrow-down keystroke.
* Has different colors for the first three levels of headline only. 

My typical outline now looks like this. 

Part 1 - Introduction
{{{Chapter 1 - Description ("Introduction to main character and plot")
{{Scene 1 - Description ("Main character introduced")
{Action 1 - Description (What action happens)
Text}
{Action 2 - Description (What action happens)
Text}
{Sequel 1 - Description (What is the consequence to the hero / plot?)
Text}
{Conclusion - Description (What has the Hero learned? What is his situation?}}}

Except that of course it goes on for pages and pages. My books typically have 12 Parts, 24 Chapters, 2-6 scenes per chapter.
When the outline is fully collapsed I just see the headings "Parts."
And I need to see at times just chapter headings and descriptions.  

There are several problems with this format now. I don't like the odd colors intruding, I don't like having to look at nested {{ }} all the time, and I wish more than anything I could move at least paragraphs up and down without cutting and pasting. 

